uh so who thinks personal data on the
web is pretty messed up right now
awesome good crowd okay I was going to
talk to you a bit about the technical
things that we do but I realized
everybody in this room is smarter about
these things than I am
so textile we exist because we think
that personal data on the web is really
broken we think that the future should
be something like an iCloud that you
actually own that's verifiable that's
encrypted that you can choose what you
do with your data and it's interoperable
so that apps and services that create
data for you aren't the last place that
data can be used that you can actually
build on top of it and create more and
more value to yourself with your data
and to other people that you want to
share that with but I thought it was
really cool to talk to you about why we
think that's important because I think
that this crowd comes from so many
diverse places a lot of people aren't
probably thinking of that and so today
my talk is the first entry and the
interplanetary Journal of Medicine
I lost creativity halfway through I
don't think it should be Journal of
medicine but I don't know what so we
should come up with a journal this is
the identification and symptoms of
personal data subservience on the World
Wide Web
so the first one is called the virtual
ink ink cartridge disorder did anybody
ever hear this case where Lexmark sued
another maker so basically they put a
chip in their ink cartridges and then
they used EMC a another cartridge maker
wanted to make it so that you could
replicate those so you could buy cheaper
cartridges on the market they used the
MCA to try to sue them out of existence
they lost but they tried why does it
feel a little bit like that happens with
our data anybody ever try to export
their Facebook data and you ever notice
that it's in a bunch of web pages like
your photos are in web pages like they
make it the mote like oh yeah I want
Facebook but exported it's like pretty
stupid so we ran into that and we built
a little thing around it but that
happens everywhere
ever anybody ever here power ventures me
neither but they did exist for a while
and they built a service to connect all
your social services so that you could
social applications so you could control
them from one dashboard they were sued
out of existence by Facebook
okay okay they didn't want other people
to connect to your data in those sorts
of ways that make it more useable to you
I don't know whose side of the argument
I'm on for whether or not they should
exist but but that's actually a really
terrible precedent to set up they
actually won in court power ventures won
in court but far too late for a start-up
to exist they'd already lost so much
money okay
second disorder the Abercrombie & Fitch
disorder anybody ever noticed that like
as a clothing retailer it's built bigger
and more successful they all just look
the same did anybody ever feel that way
about our web apps and our services ever
wonder why it happens that way
did anybody ever hear about this Oh nah
though Facebook bought this VPN so they
bought a VPN 20 million users what did
they use the VPN data for to copy
snapchat and build features so that they
can put them out of service why why
can't we have multiple applications that
serve different users why are they all
going for the lowest common denominator
a lot of broad users really shallow use
cases really boring is it really the
internet we want to be part of why is
that happening
happens all over the place anybody here
use mail box anybody remember that
nobody used mail box I know you don't
use it anymore but they existed for a
while and it was a really great inbox
application what happened Google
launched Inbox
what happened a little bit wait later
mailbox failed why did they fail that
huge competitors what happened later
Google shutdown Inbox why is all our
email with the exact same
that's strange that sucks okay next
disorder the functioning disorder
dysfunctional disorient disorder
delorean disorder what happens when your
DeLorean stops running you go to some
obscure forum you figure out how to make
it run again what happens when your apps
stop stop running they stop running why
is that why do the apps that you love
they're using the data that you created
able to just stop running why does it
have to be that way right so this guy he
had some DeLorean that just didn't work
and he goes to a web form he figures how
to fix it and it works again that's
crazy okay final one in verse key just
dependents anybody ever build a bot or
an app on slack or Twitter and you get a
bunch of different tokens you get some
keys you get one for everything that you
build that's awesome that's really great
security for when you build an app why
is it that when I log in with my Twitter
account or my Facebook account or my
Google account they sort of get
everything that I'm doing they get to
know which
so I'm using they get to connect to
different data that's being produced
about me Facebook has a pixel there I
think the estimates over on David picks
on something like fifty percent of web
webpage webpages you traffic maybe more
if you were actually count entries and
exits to those those pages it's probably
something like eight eighty to ninety
percent of web traffic that they're
actually being able to detect who's
doing it what and where that's weird
that's terrible why don't I have an API
key why don't I have keys that I that
somebody actually asked me for that can
tell them oh you can use this data and I
can take it away that's the web that we
want that's what we're trying to build
we have a lot of other cool
opportunities to share this with you we
have a Photos app that we have a album
going around that you can join it's
really fun and interesting it was broken
until right now we just pushed a fix
that should be usable here we have a
science fair the entry that we're going
to show tomorrow with that we have a tag
game going around that you can play tag
on ipfs and we have a workshop tomorrow
to show you how how to help build apps
and create the decentralized iCloud
thank you
[Applause]